# Meeting notes 
Clara and Albin are absent due to exam week.

## Discussion with Iulia about our motivation, purpose and how to evaluate it.
- Iulia states that we have to decide how we define user-friendliness

## Weekly log
- TODOS need to be more concrete. We need to provide some kind of
    motivation/problem and why we're working on a certain task.

## DONES
- Linus: done with "ipc-task" -- connected zeromq and protobuf to prepare 
    communication between amba and gui application. We've decided to not use
    this because we figured out a better solution (c++ to c to rust FFI within
    libamba so the IPC is rust to rust. This is a much more elegant solution, we
    will use serde (SERialization DEserialization)).
- Clara & Albin: Worked with egui implementation, will present a draft pr on
    tuesday.
- Loke: S2E is now working using prebuilt guest vm images downloaded from google
    drive. It is necessary to have guest vm images to run a vm.💀
- Loke: Fix dynamic linking of libamba.so to libs2e.so. This is necessary to
    have reasonable iteration time (without it's 15 mins +)
- Loke: Self-hosted CI with persistent nix store. This shortens CI-time from 25 mins to
    2 mins. 
- Loke: Fixed Clippy (linting of rust code). It was previously broken due to
    stable-nightly-conflicts. Also enabled more linting rules.
- Loke: Added `amba-impure` script to allow quick testing of libamba (
    requiring rebuilding amba).
- Enaya: Worked with preparing dynamic linking in libamba by moving data in
    AmbaPlugin.h behind an opaque pointer. This is to be
    reverted because this header isn't statically linked to libs2e.so. (We found
    this surprising!)
- Enaya: Tried to use `amba run` to debug error code 139. Couldn't produce a 
    fix.
- Enaya: Debugged binary cache not being used while running `nix build`. Fixed
    by adding oneself as trusted user in /etc/nix/nix.conf. Also documented this
    in the README.
- Samuel: Helped/Coached Enaya with opaque pointers (dynamic linking prep). 
- Samuel: libamba-rs build and linking setup. When possible we want to program
    in rust. This enables writing of isolated modules in rust (in libamba)
- Samuel: Working on construction and reduction of control flow graphs. This is a work in progress and is not yet mergeable.

## TODOS
- Loke: Document building the report in the README. Currently this requires entering
    dev-shell and running make (in the correct directory) which isn't stated
    anywhere.
- "Schedule" sending a report to Iulia ahead of every monday meeting. (We want Iulia to be up to
    date with the current state of our report)
- Linus: Verbose weekly log, meaning we need to state why we're doing a task (what is
    the problem, and the todo answers how we solve it or how we intend on
    solving it)
- Loke: Add CI that runs `amba run` on a smoke test binary. This allows us to catch
    mistakes quicker.
- Linus: Prepare a pull-request of "ipc-task". Linus previously had a task to
    prepare communication between gui and amba and needs to push this to git.
- Samuel: Disable untested libamba code by removing all calls to it. We originally merged libamba before S2E was
    runnable, we therefore had merged a bunch of broken untested code. This
    allows us to have a runnable master. 
- Loke: Debug libamba code. Libamba (bootleg valgrind reimplementation) is currently broken and needs to be debugged to
    figure out what's wrong. If this gets fixed then it might solve/reveal
    other problems.
- Loke/Linus/TBD: (DAP) Amba code to run S2E in gdb. GDB allows us to troubleshoot more
    effectively. 
- Albin & Clara: Continue work on a gui prototype. Set up egui-node-graph and
    get something runnable. This should be merged into amba.
- Samuel: Merge linkable and callable libamba-rs. We don't want too long-lived
    branches and want the already finished part to be merged before work
    continues.
- Samuel: Merge control flow graph skeleton structure. We don't want too long-lived
    branches and want the already finished part to be merged before work
    continues.
- Linus: Create a directory in our git repo containing links to related-work-papers. 
- Linus: Summarize a related-work-paper in the report.
- Albin: Rebase away pdfs in our repo (copyright infringement 🤬 // Samuel & Loke)
- Enaya: Get help from Samuel with the `amba run` issue listed above.
- Enaya: Investigate how to re-run S2E with a modified input so that interaction
    between user and gui works.
- UNASSIGNED: Construct the search tree by tracking forking on symbolic input within S2E.
    This tree might be relevant to present in the gui. [Wait with this until
    Samuel is finished with his task]
- UNASSIGNED: User interface to specify how the program is supposed to be run and what input
    is symbolic. [Low priority]
- Linus: Transfer todos and dones into weeklylog.csv.

