# Möte 2023-03-30

## Current project state
- We have an unmerged but pretty complete integration of GUI and amba.
- We need to send right things, fetch right things and an actual pretty Graph
  rendering.

## DONES
- Enaya: Use addr2line to get as much debug info out as
  possible from the binary on disk. Use Enayas tmp code and fix it. We want
  something like source code line corresponding to a chunk of assembly as a
  comment.
- Samuel: Create a metadata framework for the CFG nodes.
- Loke: ~~Enaya~~: Integrate amba ↔ libamba by sending our graph data to GUI
  and display it. Start with some small data that you send over. No-progress
  yet. Firstly cleanup GUI side first so people can start doing stuff there
  without being blocked. IN-PROGRESS. Not merged.
- Loke: ~~Enaya~~: Create a IpcGraph having edges and metadata bidirectional
  conversion with existing data_structures::Graph. It makes it performent over
  IPC without making data_structures::Graph more specific, leaves it to be
  General. Not merged.

## In-progress
- Enaya: REPORT Use a sensible documentclass (report), use \chapter for top
  level sections. NO-PROGRESS YET.
- Linus: ~~Loke~~: REPORT draft of sections we want in the report. We need
  something like Introduction - Theory - Method - Results/Discussion.
  IN-PROGRESS. Needs discussion.
- Albin: Use capstone-rs to disassemble a slice of bytes. Later on this
  will be integrated within the GUI disassembly view. IN-PROGRESS.
- Samuel: Detect and identify strongly-connected components, this can be a
  higher level view of the CFG. IN-PROGRESS. We have two algorithms for this,
  we want a DAG as output but the algorithms don't give that as output.
  Complexity is a problem to do that.
- Linus: REPORT Read through whole report and create a plan to start
  attacking. IN-PROGRESS.
- Clara: Represent compressed nodes as an ordered list of original nodes. This
  will help in the implementation of compression algorithm and also be needed
  to reconstruct the disassembly of compressed nodes on the GUI side. IN-PROGRESS.
- UNASSIGNED: create a subcommand that creates a recipe json with no symbolic
  input. NO-PROGRESS. Maybe we just need an example file one can copy and edit.
- UNASSIGNED: create an example recipe file with all features displayed and
  commented (documented). NO-PROGRESS.
- Linus: Write a project arcitecture overview, so that everyone has an
  idea of what every part of the project does. IN-PROGRESS #65.
- UNASSIGNED: include the computed native addr in CFG node as metadata.
  NO-PROGRESS. Blocked by the metadata struct implementation.
- UNASSIGNED: Send over instruction slice for a node when it is new. Send this
  only every so often. NO-PROGRESS.
- UNASSIGNED: Debug libamba code. Libamba (bootleg valgrind
  reimplementation) is currently broken and needs to be debugged to figure out
  what's wrong. NO-PROGRESS.
- Samuel: REPORT Describe CFG compression a little bit in the graph, why and
  how. NO-PROGRESS.
- UNASSIGNED: Rewrite recipe crate to do more syntax and semantic checks to
  catch more syntactically correct but semantically incorrect recipe files.
  Example: that the binary is statically linked etc.

## TODOS (also refer to In-progress)
- Loke: **GRAPH RENDERING** Iterative and interactive graph layout
  algorithm (changing layout parameters in the gui).
- Loke: **GRAPH RENDERING** Some sort of force field that makes the graph
  "hang top down from the starting node".
- Loke: **GRAPH RENDERING** LOW PRIO Improve time complexity using
  Barnes-Hut/Quadtree, currently ≈ n^3 in number of nodes.
- UNASSIGNED: CGC binaries.
- Enaya: Store KLEE expressions as metadata to get to some node (from the
  starting node). Evaluate it to a printable expression.
- UNASSIGNED: GUI tool to choose to prioritize a certain "state" in S2E. So
  that one can focus on a branch that is intresting and ignore others manually.
  This will give more control to the user. Scheduele a state to run later?
- UNASSIGNED: Monitor syscalls made by the binary (hook on `onSyscall`? Is
  there such a thing?).
- Samuel: Have our own alternative naming for S2E states. Now a fork leads
  to one new state and one of the states is continued in the current state, but
  for rendering a graph we need unique names for the state continued after a
  fork and before.
- UNASSIGNED: Figure out how to do useful state-merging using S2E. Maybe we
  could do something like creating breakpoints for start and end addresses the
  user has chosen or do something automatic if possible, can this be done using
  S2E with some hooks?. Investigation task.
