# Meeting 2023-05-12

## Discussion
- Mail to Francisco regarding workshop tomorrow.


## DONES
- Linus: **REPORT** Write about symbolic fuzzing in theory section. IN-PROGRESS.

## Backlog
- Enaya: **REPORT** debug data. NO-PROGRESS.
- Enaya: Store KLEE expressions as metadata to get to some node (from the
  starting node). Evaluate it to a printable expression. For now store the text
  representation a solution to the expr. IN-PROGRESS.
- Enaya: **REPORT** Gör inledningen mer mer sammanhållet och gör läsaren redo
  för att förstå syftet. Ge en röd tråd genom hela section. IN-PROGRESS.
- Enaya: **REPORT** Skriv om "tidigare arbeten" section under inledning till
  att handla om existerande verktyg och inte seesaw och xforece. Inte
  detaljerat, referera mest till senare section om existerande verktyg.
  NO-PROGRESS.

- ~~Linus~~UNASSIGNED: **REPORT** Symbolic input & state forking (under section
  5). NO-PROGRESS.
- Linus: **REPORT** Evaluation section. (Jämföra med andra verktyg, exempelvis
  CFG:en med Ghidras CFG av samma program. Kanske även analysera någon
  exempelprogram med AMBA.) IN-PROGRESS.

- Clara: Represent compressed nodes as an ordered list of original nodes. This
  will help in the implementation of compression algorithm and also be needed
  to reconstruct the disassembly of compressed nodes on the GUI side.
  IN-PROGRESS.
- Clara: **REPORT** Write Abstract + Sammanfattning. IN-PROGRESS.

- Albin: **REPORT** Fix begreppslista according to Supervisor feedback.
  IN-PROGRESS.
- Albin: **REPORT** Make S2E architecture graph as a real figure.

- Loke: **REPORT** Feature set section, discuss s2e vs symQEMU vs angr vs symCC
  i AMBA section instead of Inledning. NO-PROGRESS.
- Loke: Combine dissembly + debugdata and show in the GUI, split into two PRs.
  IN-PROGRESS.
- Loke?: **REPORT** Summerize this as previous work, what differentiates us
  from them? Are there simmiliar work to this one?:
  https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9161524
- Loke: **BUG_FIX** Fix repulsion-approximation slider blinking
  active/non-active.

- Samuel: Implement a "Searcher" that has ability to be controlled by the
  user, reviewable, potential theoretical race condition in the searcher code.
  IN-PROGRESS.
- Samuel: Colour nodes after strongly connected components and functions.
  NO-PROGRESS.
- Samuel: Nodidentifiering som glömmer symbolic state, behåller basic block.
  Visar möjliga paths lite för generellt men i mindre graf. A new graph that
  compresses the basic block graph.

- UNASSIGNED: **REPORT** Slutsats section: Discuss a little about s2e usage and
  what was hard and about the nix environment.
- UNASSIGNED: More references needed in many places. places in Theory
  section... Kan göras lite senare.
- UNASSIGNED: Only process (run layout algorithm) currently viewed graph in
  GUI.
- Existerande verktyg.

### LOW_PRIO:
- UNASSIGNED: create a subcommand that creates a recipe json with no symbolic
  input. NO-PROGRESS. Maybe we just need an example file one can copy and edit.
- UNASSIGNED: create an example recipe file with all features displayed and
  commented (documented). NO-PROGRESS.
- UNASSIGNED: Rewrite recipe crate to do more syntax and semantic checks to
  catch more syntactically correct but semantically incorrect recipe files.
  Example: that the binary is statically linked etc.
- UNASSIGNED: Monitor syscalls made by the binary (hook on `onSyscall`? Is
  there such a thing?).
- UNASSIGNED: Figure out how to do useful state-merging using S2E. Maybe we
  could do something like creating breakpoints for start and end addresses the
  user has chosen or do something automatic if possible, can this be done using
  S2E with some hooks?. Investigation task.
- UNASSIGNED: **LOW_PRIO** Document Recipe file/json format.

## TODOS (also refer to backlog)
