# Möte 2023-03-28

## Bibliotekshandledning
Rimliga feedback.

## DONES
- Clara: Report: section about symbolic execution, go into more details. Give
  an intuition. Take inspiration of depth level from related works.
- Clara: Setup a functional virtual machine to be able to run the GUI.
- Enaya: Look at existing S2E plugins trying to figure out how to map virtual
  addresses to native ones. So we can refer to a disassembler and understand
  where in the code we are when running in QEMU.
- Enaya: Reduce the CFG to only include blocks that are inside our "module" and
  not OS modules and etc. Get module path in the plugin via lua config file.
- Samuel: Hook on `onStateFork` instead of `onTranslateBlockStart` to create
  symbolic program tree, this should be a MUCH smaller graph.
- Samuel: Factor out data structures to own crate. (SmallU64Set, DisjointSet,
  Graph)
- Enaya: REPORT (URGENT) Send in revised report to library guidance.
- Enaya: REPORT (URGENT) Fix current citations by me to be more relevant and
  academical.

## In-progress
- Loke: ~~Enaya~~: Integrate amba ↔ libamba by sending our graph data to GUI
  and display it. Start with some small data that you send over. No-progress
  yet. Firstly cleanup GUI side first so people can start doing stuff there
  without being blocked. IN-PROGRESS. Bug in our IPC crate, Data is not
  recieved.
- Enaya: Report: Use a sensible documentclass (report), use \chapter for top
  level sections. NO-PROGRESS YET.
- Linus: ~~Loke~~: REPORT draft of sections we want in the report. We need
  something like Introduction - Theory - Method - Results/Discussion.
  IN-PROGRESS. Needs discussion.
- Samuel: Create a metadata framework for the CFG nodes. IN-PROGRESS.
- Albin: Use capstone-rs to disassemble a slice of bytes. Later on this
  will be integrated within the GUI disassembly view. IN-PROGRESS.
- Enaya: ~~UNASSIGNED~~: Use addr2line to get as much debug info out as
  possible from the binary on disk. Use Enayas tmp code and fix it. We want
  something like source code line corresponding to a chunk of assembly as a
  comment. IN-PROGRESS.
- Samuel: Detect and identify strongly-connected components, this can be a
  higher level view of the CFG. IN-PROGRESS. We have two algorithms for this,
  we want a DAG as output but the algorithms don't give that as output.
  Complexity is a problem to do that.
- Linus: REPORT Read through whole report and create a plan to start
  attacking. IN-PROGRESS.
- Clara: Represent compressed nodes as an ordered list of original nodes. This
  will help in the implementation of compression algorithm and also be needed
  to reconstruct the disassembly of compressed nodes on the GUI side. IN-PROGRESS.
- UNASSIGNED: create a subcommand that creates a recipe json with no symbolic
  input. NO-PROGRESS. Maybe we just need an example file one can copy and edit.
- UNASSIGNED: create an example recipe file with all features displayed and
  commented (documented). NO-PROGRESS.
- Linus: Write a project arcitecture overview, so that everyone has an
  idea of what every part of the project does. IN-PROGRESS #65.

## TODOS (also refer to In-progress)
- UNASSIGNED: include the computed native addr in CFG node as metadata.
  NO-PROGRESS. Blocked by the metadata struct implementation.
- UNASSIGNED: Send over instruction slice for a node when it is new. Send this
  only every so often. NO-PROGRESS.
- UNASSIGNED: ~~Loke~~: Debug libamba code. Libamba (bootleg valgrind
  reimplementation) is currently broken and needs to be debugged to figure out
  what's wrong. NO-PROGRESS.
- Samuel: REPORT Describe CFG compression a little bit in the graph, why and
  how. NO-PROGRESS.
- Enaya: Create a IpcGraph having edges and metadata bidirectional
  conversion with existing data_structures::Graph. It makes it performent over
  IPC without making data_structures::Graph more specific, leaves it to be
  General.
- UNASSIGNED: Rewrite recipe crate to do more syntax and semantic checks to
  catch more syntactically correct but semantically incorrect recipe files.
  Example: that the binary is statically linked etc.

