Samuel Enaya sena.
Iulias barn på besök.
Clara distans.

Joachim is willing to accept a revised version, but doesn't agree with
us on grading.  Is it worth revising?
Joachim seems to be unwilling to accept the idea of general purpose
tooling.  More specific requirements and concrete specifications.  He
didn't like the use of the word "demo".

Joachim: Motivation was unclear. The existance of other tools in the
area is not enough to prove the need for this kind of tools.
Iulia: Actually list specific problems.
Use real world usecases.

Joachim: Requirements.
We list specific things in the analysis section, but we can't know
beforehand if these are actually good ideas or if we need something
else.
Will he accept an exploratory project at all? Samuel is extremely
doubtful.

Maybe split the list of demo ideas into a minimum list and potential
ideas?
Reformulate the manual and automatic combination.

### ACTUAL TODO LIST
* Background
	Motivate reverse engineering
	Add a number of real world use cases (the clickbaitier, the better)
	Example that specifically motivates the need for a
	manual automatic hybrid approach

* Cohesive theory section
** Begrepp

* Split repo in two to move meeting notes out of development?
	Yay rebasing

* Weekly log should contain c/p todo:s from meeting notes.

* Write angry rant email to Wolfgang about Freedom of information and
  fundamental human rights
	Public repo
	Public commit history and/or `weeklylog.md`

* Linus skickar in, till både biblioteket och andra gruppen.
* Läs deras rapport innan mötet på tors.

### Since last meeting
Linus/Clara/Albin möte finns i separat protokoll (måste döpas om)
Folk har skrivit, ingen har pushat.

Linus har skrivit om hur syftet är uppnått. (Exemplifierat)

De sammanställer idag och skickar till Pavlos.
