# Meeting Thursday 2023-03-23

## Current project state
- We have a clean repo now free from copyrighted pdfs.
- We have a GUI we can start developing.
- We have IPC that we can create connections with and communicate between GUI
  and our S2E plugin.
- We can create a CFG of a binary, the "full" and the symbolic CFG. We want to
  start visualizing this.

## DONES
- Albin: build the our GUI code using nix.
- Loke: Throw symbolic data in amba run. Take `demos/control-flow.c` from
  #14 and make the program symbolic over argc (maybe just over getchar()).
  Change make file to run `nix run . -- ...` to run the program in QEMU
  symbolicly.
- Loke: generalize above task (so we can easily make some the program input
  symbolic). Done, using "Recipe" files.
- Samuel: Iterative graph building.
- Albin: Rebase out all downloaded pdf's from the repo (because we don't want
  pdf's that might have copyright issues in our repo. We would like to make the
  repo public eventually.)
- ~~Linus~~: Visualize a few graph nodes with edges with some text inside. The text
  should be updatable. We want to use this to visualize the control-flow graph.
  Done by hello-world gui task.

## In-progress
- Loke: ~~Enaya~~: Integrate amba ↔ libamba by sending our graph data to GUI
  and display it. Start with some small data that you send over. No-progress
  yet. Firstly cleanup GUI side first so people can start doing stuff there
  without being blocked.
- Enaya: Report: Use a sensible documentclass (report), use \chapter for top
  level sections. No-progress yet.
- Clara: Report: section about symbolic execution, go into more details. Give
  an intuition. Take inspiration of depth level from related works.
- Linus: ~~Loke~~: Report: draft of sections we want in the report.
- Clara: Setup a functional virtual machine to be able to run the GUI.
- Enaya: Look at existing S2E plugins trying to figure out how to map virtual
  addresses to native ones. So we can refer to a disassembler and understand
  where in the code we are when running in QEMU. TODO: include the computed
  native addr in CFG node as meta data.
- Enaya: Reduce the CFG to only include blocks that are inside our "module" and
  not OS modules and etc. TODO: Get module path in the plugin via lua config
  file.
- Samuel: Hook on `onStateFork` instead of `onTranslateBlockStart` to create
  symbolic program tree, this should be a MUCH smaller graph. In-progress.

## TODOS (also refer to In-progress)
- Samuel: Factor out data structures to own crate. (SmallU64Set, DisjointSet,
  Graph)
- Samuel: Create a metadata framework for the CFG nodes.
- Albin: Use capstone-rs to disassemble a slice of bytes. Later on this
  will be integrated within the GUI disassembly view. 
- UNASSIGNED: Send over instruction slice for a node when it is new. Send this
  only every so often.
- UNASSIGNED: Use addr2line to get as much debug info out as possible from the
  binary on disk. Use Enayas tmp code and fix it. We want something like source
  code line corresponding to a chunk of assembly as a comment.
- UNASSIGNED: ~~Loke~~: Debug libamba code. Libamba (bootleg valgrind
  reimplementation) is currently broken and needs to be debugged to figure out
  what's wrong.
- Enaya: REPORT (URGENT) Send in revised report to library guidance.
- Enaya: REPORT (URGENT) Fix current citations by me to be more relevant and
  academical.
- Samuel: REPORT Describe CFG compression a little bit in the graph, why and
  how.
- Samuel: Detect and identify strongly-connected components, this can be a
  higher level view of the CFG.
- Linus: REPORT Read through whole report and create a plan to start
  attacking.
- Clara: Represend compressed nodes as an ordered list of original nodes. This
  will help in the implementation of compression algorithm and also be needed
  to reconstruct the disassembly of compressed nodes on the GUI side.
- UNASSIGNED: create a subcommand that creates a recipe json with no symbolic
  input.
- UNASSIGNED: create an example recipe file with all features displayed and
  commented (documented).
- Linus: Write a project arcitecture overview, so that everyone has an
  idea of what every part of the project does.


## Discussions
- Loke: One can try to do some coloring using strongly-connected components in
  the CFG.
- Loke: One can try to do automatic state-merging. Try guessing a state-merging
  strategy from the state-fork graph and see if it improves the CFG, revert
  otherwise?
- Maybe have a wizard for creating recipe files, for the user-friendliness.


