# Möte 2023-04-03

- Albin: worked on his capstone-rs task, hasn't written any code yet.
- Clara: worked on her compressed nodes task.
- Loke: worked on drawing graphs
- Enaya: KlEE expressions
- Linus: Worked on report/architecture docs

## Suggestions for structure in report
- Introduction
  - 1/3 should present the problem in the introduction (continously narrowing
  until we get to the solution)
- Background into its own section
- (AMBA) After background we need a section where we describe what we're doing (feature
    set)
- Implementation section (briefly describing what we have and what decisions
    were taken)
- Evaluation section (comparison with other frameworks or tools)
- Limitations section
- Related work (discussing related work in-depth)
- Conclusion section

## Misc 
- Title suggestion: Developer assisted binary analysis
- Do not use hybrid in the title because it is misleading (implies that we're using static &
    dynamic analysis)

## DONES
- Linus: ~~Loke~~: REPORT draft of sections we want in the report. We need
  something like Introduction - Theory - Method - Results/Discussion.
- Samuel: Detect and identify strongly-connected components, this can be a
  higher level view of the CFG. We have two algorithms for this,
  we want a DAG as output but the algorithms don't give that as output.
  Complexity is a problem to do that. Add test case
- Loke: **GRAPH RENDERING** Iterative and interactive graph layout
  algorithm (changing layout parameters in the gui).
- Loke: **GRAPH RENDERING** Some sort of force field that makes the graph
  "hang top down from the starting node".

## Backlog
- Enaya: REPORT Use a sensible documentclass (report), use \chapter for top
  level sections. NO-PROGRESS YET.
- Albin: Use capstone-rs to disassemble a slice of bytes. Later on this
  will be integrated within the GUI disassembly view. IN-PROGRESS.
- Linus: REPORT Read through whole report and create a plan to start
  attacking. IN-PROGRESS.
- Clara: Represent compressed nodes as an ordered list of original nodes. This
  will help in the implementation of compression algorithm and also be needed
  to reconstruct the disassembly of compressed nodes on the GUI side. IN-PROGRESS.
- UNASSIGNED: create a subcommand that creates a recipe json with no symbolic
  input. NO-PROGRESS. Maybe we just need an example file one can copy and edit.
- UNASSIGNED: create an example recipe file with all features displayed and
  commented (documented). NO-PROGRESS.
- Linus: Write a project arcitecture overview, so that everyone has an
  idea of what every part of the project does. IN-PROGRESS #65.
- UNASSIGNED: include the computed native addr in CFG node as metadata.
  NO-PROGRESS. Blocked by the metadata struct implementation.
- UNASSIGNED: Send over instruction slice for a node when it is new. Send this
  only every so often. NO-PROGRESS.
- UNASSIGNED: Debug libamba code. Libamba (bootleg valgrind
  reimplementation) is currently broken and needs to be debugged to figure out
  what's wrong. NO-PROGRESS.
- UNASSIGNED: Rewrite recipe crate to do more syntax and semantic checks to
  catch more syntactically correct but semantically incorrect recipe files.
  Example: that the binary is statically linked etc.
- UNASSIGNED: CGC binaries. NO PROGRESS
- Enaya: Store KLEE expressions as metadata to get to some node (from the
  starting node). Evaluate it to a printable expression. IN-PROGRESS
- UNASSIGNED: GUI tool to choose to prioritize a certain "state" in S2E. So
  that one can focus on a branch that is intresting and ignore others manually.
  This will give more control to the user. Scheduele a state to run later?
- UNASSIGNED: Monitor syscalls made by the binary (hook on `onSyscall`? Is
  there such a thing?).
- Samuel: Have our own alternative naming for S2E states. Now a fork leads
  to one new state and one of the states is continued in the current state, but
  for rendering a graph we need unique names for the state continued after a
  fork and before. NO-PROGRESS
- UNASSIGNED: Figure out how to do useful state-merging using S2E. Maybe we
  could do something like creating breakpoints for start and end addresses the
  user has chosen or do something automatic if possible, can this be done using
  S2E with some hooks?. Investigation task.
- Loke: **GRAPH RENDERING** LOW PRIO Improve time complexity using
  Barnes-Hut/Quadtree, currently ≈ n^3 in number of nodes.

## TODOS (also refer to backlog)
1. Introduction
  - 1/3 should present the problem in the introduction (continously narrowing
  until we get to the solution)
2. Background into its own section
3. (AMBA) After background we need a section where we describe what we're doing (feature
    set)
4. Implementation section (briefly describing what we have and what decisions
    were taken)
5. Evaluation section (comparison with other frameworks or tools)
6. Limitations section
7. Related work (discussing related work in-depth)
8. Conclusion section

Graph compression, strongly connected components, dynamic and static disassembly,
debug data, graph rendering and layouting, symbolic input & state forking, state
merging, state prioritization, analysis setup-wizard

- Clara: write about related work paper (X-force)
- Loke: Feature set section, discuss s2e vs symQEMU vs angr vs symCC 
- Samuel: Describe CFG compression a little bit in the graph, why and
  how. Strongly connected components
- Albin: Introduction (introduce the topic, describe the problem and background
    and our purpose without going too much into detail)
- Linus: Symbolic input & state forking, evaluation section
- Enaya: debug data, limitations section



