# Meeting Thursday 2023-03-16

## Current project state
1. We are setting up a GUI prototype.
2. Setting up communication between GUI (the amba crate) our S2E plugin
   (libamba) using QMP.
3. Build a control flow graph by our S2E plugin (libamba).

## DONES

- Albin: Got a compiling GUI setup, looked at example egui (GUI framework
  we want to use). Tried to build the GUI with our nix setup. Working on his
  exam.
- Clara: Blocked by Albins PR. Working on her exam.
- Loke: Write a "disjoint set" datastructure needed for graph algorithms Samuel
  is writing for the program graph.
- Loke: Tried run a "hello world" smoke test on our CI server but QEMU crashes
  for not yet known reason.
- Loke: Added functionality to SIGSTOP QEMU. This allows attaching a
  profiler/debugger to QEMU (we want to use GDB for debugging purposes).
- Loke: Documented building the report in the README.
- Samuel: Continued work on control flow graph. Running an analysis takes quite
  a long time (6s without doing anything inside libamba)! We can reduce the
  control flow graph but takes ~800s to only reduce the control flow graph.
  Currently we can produce a control flow graph based on translation of basic
  blocks and try to reduce the graph.
- Samuel: Disabled untested libamba code by removing all calls to it.
- Samuel: Merged linkable and callable libamba-rs.
- Linus: Prepared a pull-request of "ipc-task" and closed because not needed
  anymore.
- Linus: Transfer todos and dones into weeklylog.csv.
- Enaya: Got help from Samuel with the `amba run` issue listed above. Merged
  the fix.
- Enaya: Tried Investigating how to re-run S2E with a modified input so that
  interaction. Noticed we might require QMP to talk to QEMU and currently we
  can't talk to QEMU. Set up so amba starts in QEMU as a server on a thread and
  connect QMP client to it and connect and request some info from QEMU (PR #42).

## TODO
- Albin/Clara: Setup a hello world example GUI and merge to master.
- Albin/Clara: Set up the event handler for GUI so we have a correct GUI
  "server" to work with.
- Loke: Fix impure-run for faster iteration (nix run inside a nix shell works though)
- Samuel: Merge control flow graph skeleton structure. So that we can produce
  todos from that and try to parallelize the work on control flow if possible.
- Loke: Throw symbolic data in amba run. Take `demos/control-flow.c` from
  #14 and make the program symbolic over argc (maybe just over getchar()).
  Change make file to run `nix run . -- ...` to run the program in QEMU
  symbolicly.
- Loke: generalize above task (so we can easily make some the program input
  symbolic).
- Loke: Fix QMP branch when it comes to code style and merge it in.
- Samuel: Continue on graph reduction and optimization. Hook on `onStateFork`
  instead of `onTranslateBlockStart` to create symbolic program tree,
  this should be a MUCH smaller graph.
- Enaya/Linux: Investigate what you can do with QMP.
- Enaya: Write about existing tools which is not complete yet in the report
  (Binary ninja, CGC binaries)
- Linus: Create a directory in our git repo containing links to
  related-work-papers. 
- Linus: Summarize a related-work-paper in the report.

## Discussion
- Can we try to merge parts of Samuels PR "control flow 2" and try to
  parallelize more of the work because everything revolves currently around
  that PR.
- We should try to write in the report. But is it worth focusing on it just
  yet? Is our code too unstable?


