# Möte 2023-04-12

## DONES
- Albin~~Enaya~~: **REPORT** Use a sensible documentclass (report), use
  \chapter for top level sections.
- Albin: **REPORT** Introduction (introduce the topic, describe the problem and
  background and our purpose without going too much into detail). NOT MERGED.
- Linus: **REPORT** Read through whole report and create a plan to start
  attacking.
- Linus: Write a project arcitecture overview, so that everyone has an
  idea of what every part of the project does.
- Clara: **REPORT** write about related work paper (X-force)
- Samuel: pull out some stuff from the README.md to DEVELOPMENT.md and add
  `cargo2nix -f` bla bla in there too.

## Backlog
- Enaya: **REPORT** debug data, limitations section. NO-PROGRESS.
- Enaya: Store KLEE expressions as metadata to get to some node (from the
  starting node). Evaluate it to a printable expression. A S2EExecutionState is
  what we need but that is not storable, not sure if we even need to store
  this. One could get a concrete input which can get us to this state which is
  simple but not a complete thing we want. Hard with no good docs for KLEE
  architecture and S2E architecture that goes into detail. IN-PROGRESS

- Albin: Use capstone-rs to disassemble a slice of bytes. Later on this
  will be integrated within the GUI disassembly view. IN-PROGRESS.

- Linus: **REPORT** Symbolic input & state forking, evaluation section.
  IN-PROGRESS.

- Clara: Represent compressed nodes as an ordered list of original nodes. This
  will help in the implementation of compression algorithm and also be needed
  to reconstruct the disassembly of compressed nodes on the GUI side.
  IN-PROGRESS.

- Loke: **GRAPH RENDERING** LOW PRIO Improve time complexity using
  Barnes-Hut/Quadtree, currently ≈ n^3 in number of nodes.
- Loke: **REPORT** Feature set section, discuss s2e vs symQEMU vs angr vs symCC 
- Loke: include the computed native addr in CFG node as metadata.
  NO-PROGRESS. Implemented in #70 which is blocked by #78.

- Samuel: **REPORT** Describe CFG compression a little bit in the graph, why and
  how. Strongly connected components. IN-PROGRESS.
- Samuel: Rework PR #69 to be more in line with existing setup expecially
  regarding the FFI boundary. Split into #77 (reviewable) and #78
  (IN-PROGRESS).

- UNASSIGNED: create a subcommand that creates a recipe json with no symbolic
  input. NO-PROGRESS. Maybe we just need an example file one can copy and edit.
- UNASSIGNED: create an example recipe file with all features displayed and
  commented (documented). NO-PROGRESS.
- UNASSIGNED: Send over instruction slice for a node when it is new. Send this
  only every so often. NO-PROGRESS.
- UNASSIGNED: Debug libamba code. Libamba (bootleg valgrind
  reimplementation) is currently broken and needs to be debugged to figure out
  what's wrong. NO-PROGRESS.
- UNASSIGNED: Rewrite recipe crate to do more syntax and semantic checks to
  catch more syntactically correct but semantically incorrect recipe files.
  Example: that the binary is statically linked etc.
- UNASSIGNED: CGC binaries. NO PROGRESS
- UNASSIGNED: GUI tool to choose to prioritize a certain "state" in S2E. So
  that one can focus on a branch that is intresting and ignore others manually.
  This will give more control to the user. Scheduele a state to run later?
- UNASSIGNED: Monitor syscalls made by the binary (hook on `onSyscall`? Is
  there such a thing?).
- UNASSIGNED: Figure out how to do useful state-merging using S2E. Maybe we
  could do something like creating breakpoints for start and end addresses the
  user has chosen or do something automatic if possible, can this be done using
  S2E with some hooks?. Investigation task.

## TODOS (also refer to backlog)

