# Meeting 2023-05-19

## Möten nästa vecka:

|---------|--------------------------------------|--------------|
| Måndag  | Möte 22/5                            | 13:15        |
|---------|--------------------------------------|--------------|
| Torsdag | Möte 25/5                            | 10:00        |
|---------|--------------------------------------|--------------|
| Fredag  | Presentation+muntlig opponering 26/5 | 9:30 - 12:00 |
|---------|--------------------------------------|--------------|


## DONES
- Enaya: Send over symoblic solutions for all states to GUI.
- All: Everone needs to write a page for Medverkansrapport.
- Samuel: Create a video presentation.
- Samuel: Colour nodes after strongly connected components, states, and
  ~~functions~~.
- Loke: **BUG_FIX** Fix repulsion-approximation slider blinking
  active/non-active.
- Loke: Display symbolic solutions in GUI.
- Loke: Make graph converge faster?
- Loke: Only process (run layout algorithm) currently viewed graph in GUI.

## Backlog

- Clara: Represent compressed nodes as an ordered list of original nodes. This
  will help in the implementation of compression algorithm and also be needed
  to reconstruct the disassembly of compressed nodes on the GUI side.
  IN-PROGRESS.

- Albin: **REPORT** Make S2E architecture graph as a real figure. IN-PROGRESS.

- Samuel: Nodidentifiering som glömmer symbolic state, behåller basic block.
  Visar möjliga paths lite för generellt men i mindre graf. A new graph that
  compresses the basic block graph.

### LOW_PRIO:
- UNASSIGNED: create a subcommand that creates a recipe json with no symbolic
  input. NO-PROGRESS. Maybe we just need an example file one can copy and edit.
- UNASSIGNED: create an example recipe file with all features displayed and
  commented (documented). NO-PROGRESS.
- UNASSIGNED: Rewrite recipe crate to do more syntax and semantic checks to
  catch more syntactically correct but semantically incorrect recipe files.
  Example: that the binary is statically linked etc.
- UNASSIGNED: Monitor syscalls made by the binary (hook on `onSyscall`? Is
  there such a thing?).
- UNASSIGNED: Figure out how to do useful state-merging using S2E. Maybe we
  could do something like creating breakpoints for start and end addresses the
  user has chosen or do something automatic if possible, can this be done using
  S2E with some hooks?. Investigation task.
- UNASSIGNED: **LOW_PRIO** Document Recipe file/json format.

## TODOS (also refer to backlog)
- Loke: **BUG_FIX** Freeze bug sometimes (very often on Enayas computer)
  the whole GUI freezes when a node is selected.
- Samuel: Color nodes by functions.

