# Meeting Monday 2023-03-20

## General
- Maybe don't spend more time on it but we need "categories" column for tasks,
  how they are related and how to get a high level view.

## Current project state
1. We are setting up a GUI prototype.
2. Setting up communication between GUI (the amba crate) our S2E plugin
   (libamba) using IPC.
3. Basic control flow graph is done, continued development in reducing the
   graph data being generated, continued development in optimizing the graph
   code (because the complete control flow graph seems to be huge for just a
   hello world program).

Since last week, noticed QMP is not what we should use becuase it is not
mandatory (we don't need it's features) and QMP as a general protocol is
limited and not nice to work with for us. (because we want to send over other
things than like just json)

No GUI updates yet.

## Availability
Iulia: Mondays and Tuesdays (friday every other week) after 15 is fine but not
much later.

|        | Monday               | Tuesday | Wednesday | Thursday | Friday               |
|--------|----------------------|---------|-----------|----------|----------------------|
| Iulia  | -15                  | -15     | ❌        | ❌       | every other week -15 |
| Enaya  | 15-                  | -12     | ✔️         | 15-      | ✔️                    |
| Loke   | every other week 15- | 13-     | ✔️         | ✔️        | ❌                   |
| Samuel | 15-                  | 8-10    | ❌        | 13-      | 8-10, 13-            |
| Clara  | 13-                  | ✔️       | ✔️         | ✔️        | ✔️                    |
| Albin  | 9-                   | ✔️       | ✔️         | ✔️        | ✔️                    |
| Linus  | ✔️                    | ✔️       | ✔️         | 13-      | ✔️                    |
|--------|----------------------|---------|-----------|----------|----------------------|
|        | 15-                  |         |           | 15-      |                      |
|--------|----------------------|---------|-----------|----------|----------------------|

Upcoming meetings preliminary
| Meeting scheduels |                      |                               |
|-------------------|----------------------|-------------------------------|
| LV1               | Monday 15-           | Thursday 13                   |
| LV2               | Tuesday 10-          | Thursday 13                   |
| Easter            | Monday 10- (distans) | Thursday 13- (distans)        |
| LV3               | Wednesday 15-        | Friday 15-                    |
| LV4               | Tuesday 10-          | Friday 13-                    |
| LV5               | Monday 15-           | Thursday 13- (report meeting) |
| LV6               | Tueday 10-           | Friday 13-                    |
| LV7               | Tuesday 10-          | Friday 13-                    |
| LV8               | Tuesday 9.30-        | Friday 13-                    |
| LV9               | every day 6-18       |                               |


## Iulia report comments
- Chapters on highest level
- Missing (symbolic execution, avgränsningar, subsection)
- Avgränsningar - mixing apples and oranges.
- Talk about symbolic execution - go into more details. Give an intuition. Take
  inspiration of depth level from related works.

## DONES
- Loke: Setup IPC instead of QMP, which is useful for us amba ↔ libamba. Data
  is serialized rust structs using serde bincode. Not merged because untested.
- Clara: Written the hello-world gui prototype. Yet to merge to master.
- Samuel: Merge control flow graph skeleton structure. So that we can produce
  todos from that and try to parallelize the work on control flow if possible.
- Loke: Fix QMP branch when it comes to code style and merge it in.
- Enaya/Linux: Investigate what you can do with QMP. We don't want or need
  QMP... QMP is not needed because we don't need to touch low level QEMU stuff
  and we don't want to use it as general protocol because it is limited to
  json.
- Loke: Fix impure-run for faster iteration (nix run inside a nix shell works though)
- Loke: Found solution to hello-world CI crashing on his CI-server issue and
  fixed it. Some options that are not supported on that hardware...
- Linus: Create a directory in our git repo containing links to
  related-work-papers. Discontinued because easier to put it in the citations
  list instead.
- Enaya: Translate an addr to symbol+offset in a binary using
  dwarf(debug data format) debug data. Discontinued because we don't really
  need this and it is an extra thing. If debug info doesn't exist we won't have
  any symbol data... A bit early to focus on things like this.
- Linus: Summarize a related-work-paper in the report. Not yet pushed.
- Linus: Adding fancy coverpage in report to meet the report requirements.
- Albin/Clara: Set up the event handler for GUI running in the main thread.

## In-progress
- Albin: build the our GUI code using nix. In-progress.
- Loke: Throw symbolic data in amba run. Take `demos/control-flow.c` from
  #14 and make the program symbolic over argc (maybe just over getchar()).
  Change make file to run `nix run . -- ...` to run the program in QEMU
  symbolicly. In-progress.
- Loke: generalize above task (so we can easily make some the program input
  symbolic). In-progress.
- Samuel: Hook on `onStateFork` instead of `onTranslateBlockStart` to create
  symbolic program tree, this should be a MUCH smaller graph. In-progress.

## TODOS (also refer to In-progress):
- Enaya: Integrate amba ↔ libamba by sending our graph data to GUI and display
  it. Start with some small data that you send over.
- Samuel: Iterative graph building.
- Linus: Visualize a few graph nodes with edges with some text inside. The text
  should be updatable. We want to use this to visualize the control-flow graph.
- Loke: Set up a way to run both GUI and amba.

- Enaya: Report: Use a sensible documentclass (report), use \chapter for top
  level sections.
- Clara: Report: section about symbolic execution, go into more details. Give an
  intuition. Take inspiration of depth level from related works.
- Loke: Report: draft of sections we want in the report.
- Albin: Rebase out all downloaded pdf's from the repo (because we don't want
  pdf's that might have copyright issues in our repo. We would like to make the
  repo public eventually.)
- Clara: Setup a functional virtual machine to be able to run the GUI.

## Extra Ideas
- Let's have dedicated breaks during meetings, 45m - pause - 45m
- Maybe go through normal meeting stuffs (done, todos) without losing focus and
  have discussions + drama + coding help etc. afterwards.

