# Meeting 2023-05-05

## Discussion
- Linus not available 18-23 maj.
- Video presentation needs to be done by 17th maj.

- We should focus on report mainly, project and report except presentation
  should be done in 2 weeks.
- We should clean up parts of report that isn't needed or relevant anymore,
  e.g. Metod section under Evaluation section? Maybe can keep parts of it under
  some other section title.
- PRIO är Evaluation section, Inledning sammanhållning, få ner mer text i
  rapporten för att senare arbeta och göra bättre.

## DONES
- Albin: Use capstone-rs to disassemble a slice of bytes. Later on this
  will be integrated within the GUI disassembly view. Cleanup a little, return
  result.
- Loke: Mark nodes with self-link with a unicode circular arrow.
- Samuel: **REPORT** Describe CFG compression a little bit in the graph, why
  and how. Strongly connected components.

## Backlog
- Enaya: **REPORT** debug data. NO-PROGRESS.
- Enaya: Store KLEE expressions as metadata to get to some node (from the
  starting node). Evaluate it to a printable expression. For now store the text
  representation a solution to the expr. IN-PROGRESS
- Enaya: **REPORT** Gör inledningen mer mer sammanhållet och gör läsaren redo
  för att förstå syftet. Ge en röd tråd genom hela section. IN-PROGRESS.
- Enaya: **REPORT** Skriv om "tidigare arbeten" section under inledning till
  att handla om existerande verktyg och inte seesaw och xforece. Inte
  detaljerat, referera mest till senare section om existerande verktyg.
  NO-PROGRESS.

- Linus: **REPORT** Symbolic input & state forking (under section 5).
  NO-PROGRESS.
- Linus: **REPORT** Evaluation section. (Jämföra med andra verktyg, exempelvis
  CFG:en med Ghidras CFG av samma program. Kanske även analysera någon
  exempelprogram med AMBA.) NO-PROGRESS.

- Clara: Represent compressed nodes as an ordered list of original nodes. This
  will help in the implementation of compression algorithm and also be needed
  to reconstruct the disassembly of compressed nodes on the GUI side.
  IN-PROGRESS.
- Clara: **REPORT** Existerande verktyg section: Talk about automatic
  fuzzers like AFL++ under another subsection that is not "dynamiska
  binäranalysramverk". IN-PROGRESS.
- Clara: **REPORT** Add more references About symbolic execution. IN-PROGRESS.

- Loke: **REPORT** Feature set section, discuss s2e vs symQEMU vs angr vs symCC
  i AMBA section instead of Inledning. NO-PROGRESS.
- Loke: include the computed native addr in CFG node as metadata.
  IN-PROGRESS.
- Loke: Send over instruction slice for a node when it is new. Send this only
  every so often. IN-PROGRESS.
- Loke: Combine dissembly + debugdata and show in the GUI. NO-PROGRESS.

- Samuel: Implement a "Searcher" that has ability to be controlled by the
  user. IN-PROGRESS.
- Samuel: Bloody Colour nodes after strongly connected components and
  functions, mate. Howdy, yeehaw. NO-PROGRESS.

- UNASSIGNED: create a subcommand that creates a recipe json with no symbolic
  input. NO-PROGRESS. Maybe we just need an example file one can copy and edit.
- UNASSIGNED: create an example recipe file with all features displayed and
  commented (documented). NO-PROGRESS.
- UNASSIGNED: Rewrite recipe crate to do more syntax and semantic checks to
  catch more syntactically correct but semantically incorrect recipe files.
  Example: that the binary is statically linked etc.
- UNASSIGNED: Monitor syscalls made by the binary (hook on `onSyscall`? Is
  there such a thing?).
- UNASSIGNED: Figure out how to do useful state-merging using S2E. Maybe we
  could do something like creating breakpoints for start and end addresses the
  user has chosen or do something automatic if possible, can this be done using
  S2E with some hooks?. Investigation task.
- UNASSIGNED: **REPORT** Slutsats section: Discuss a little about s2e usage and
  what was hard and about the nix environment.
- UNASSIGNED: More references needed in many places. places in Theory
  section... Kan göras lite senare.

## TODOS (also refer to backlog)
- Linus: **REPORT** Write about symbolic fuzzing in theory section.
- Albin: **REPORT** Fix begreppslista according to Supervisor feedback.
- Enaya: **REPORT** Fix title+cover+copyright pages according to Supervisor
  feedback and turn them swedish.
- Clara: **REPORT** Write Abstract + Sammanfattning.
- UNASSIGNED: **LOW_PRIO** Document Recipe file/json format.
- UNASSIGNED: Only process (run layout algorithm) currently viewed graph in GUI.
