# Meeting 2023-05-16

# Presentation discussion
- Result oriented
- Introduction: motivation, why symbolic execution and fuzzing and what they
  are.
- Demo
- Prerecorded demo in case live demo goes wrong.

## Extra
- Samuel do demo stuff
- Albin + Linus writing on report
- Enaya, Loke, Clara: presentation writing/preparing

- Abstract is lying? We have nothing to do with memory vulnerbility, it is just
  mentioned because symbolic execution methods could be used and have been used
  in some cases for detection of them. We don't detect memory vulnerbility we
  just allow symbolic execution and visualize it and let the user do state
  prioritization. And show the progress etc.
- If not then don't mention it - Iulia?


## DONES
- Linus: **REPORT** Write about symbolic fuzzing in theory section. IN-PROGRESS.
- Enaya: **REPORT** Gör inledningen mer mer sammanhållet och gör läsaren redo
  för att förstå syftet. Ge en röd tråd genom hela section.
- Enaya: **REPORT** Skriv om "tidigare arbeten" section under inledning till
  att handla om existerande verktyg och inte seesaw och xforece. Inte
  detaljerat, referera mest till senare section om existerande verktyg.
- Enaya: **REPORT** Skrivit om delar i teori och lagt till delar.
- ~~Linus~~Loke?: **REPORT** Symbolic input & state forking (under section
  5). 
- Clara: **REPORT** Write Abstract + Sammanfattning.
- Linus: **REPORT** Evaluation section. (Jämföra med andra verktyg, exempelvis
  CFG:en med Ghidras CFG av samma program. Kanske även analysera någon
  exempelprogram med AMBA.)
- Albin: **REPORT** Fix begreppslista according to Supervisor feedback.
- Loke: **REPORT** Feature set section, discuss s2e vs symQEMU vs angr vs symCC
  i AMBA section instead of Inledning.
- Loke: Combine dissembly + debugdata and show in the GUI, split into two PRs.
- Loke?: **REPORT** Summerize this as previous work, what differentiates us
  from them? Are there simmiliar work to this one?:
  https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9161524
- Samuel: Implement a "Searcher" that has ability to be controlled by the
  user, reviewable, potential theoretical race condition in the searcher code.
- Albin: **REPORT** Slutsats section: Discuss a little about s2e usage and
  what was hard and about the nix environment.
- everyone: More references needed in many places. places in Theory
  section... Kan göras lite senare.

- Enaya: **REPORT** debug data. NO-PROGRESS. IGNORED.
- Enaya: Store KLEE expressions as metadata to get to some node (from the
  starting node). Evaluate it to a printable expression. For now store the text
  representation a solution to the expr. IN-PROGRESS. IGNORING TASK.

## Backlog

- Clara: Represent compressed nodes as an ordered list of original nodes. This
  will help in the implementation of compression algorithm and also be needed
  to reconstruct the disassembly of compressed nodes on the GUI side.
  IN-PROGRESS.

- Albin: **REPORT** Make S2E architecture graph as a real figure.

- Loke: **BUG_FIX** Fix repulsion-approximation slider blinking
  active/non-active.

- Samuel: Colour nodes after strongly connected components and functions.
  NO-PROGRESS.
- Samuel: Nodidentifiering som glömmer symbolic state, behåller basic block.
  Visar möjliga paths lite för generellt men i mindre graf. A new graph that
  compresses the basic block graph.

- UNASSIGNED: Only process (run layout algorithm) currently viewed graph in
  GUI.

### LOW_PRIO:
- UNASSIGNED: create a subcommand that creates a recipe json with no symbolic
  input. NO-PROGRESS. Maybe we just need an example file one can copy and edit.
- UNASSIGNED: create an example recipe file with all features displayed and
  commented (documented). NO-PROGRESS.
- UNASSIGNED: Rewrite recipe crate to do more syntax and semantic checks to
  catch more syntactically correct but semantically incorrect recipe files.
  Example: that the binary is statically linked etc.
- UNASSIGNED: Monitor syscalls made by the binary (hook on `onSyscall`? Is
  there such a thing?).
- UNASSIGNED: Figure out how to do useful state-merging using S2E. Maybe we
  could do something like creating breakpoints for start and end addresses the
  user has chosen or do something automatic if possible, can this be done using
  S2E with some hooks?. Investigation task.
- UNASSIGNED: **LOW_PRIO** Document Recipe file/json format.

## TODOS (also refer to backlog)
- Everone needs to write a page for Medverkansrapport
- We need to create a video presentaion

