# Meeting 2023-04-18

## Iulia
- Find a new good title. Something along the lines of "AMBA: a tool for ..."

## Discussion

## DONES
- Samuel: Rework PR #69 to be more in line with existing setup expecially
  regarding the FFI boundary. Split into #77 (reviewable) and #78.
- Samuel: Draw part 3 - Refactor IPC to include metadata about in the message
  to the GUI.

## Backlog
- Enaya: **REPORT** debug data, limitations section. NO-PROGRESS.
- Enaya: Store KLEE expressions as metadata to get to some node (from the
  starting node). Evaluate it to a printable expression. For now store the text
  representation a solution to the expr. IN-PROGRESS

- Albin: Use capstone-rs to disassemble a slice of bytes. Later on this
  will be integrated within the GUI disassembly view. IN-PROGRESS.

- Linus: **REPORT** Symbolic input & state forking, evaluation section.
  IN-PROGRESS.
- Linus: **REPORT** Omformulera syfte att passa det vi vill skriva om.
  IN-PROGRESS.

- Clara: Represent compressed nodes as an ordered list of original nodes. This
  will help in the implementation of compression algorithm and also be needed
  to reconstruct the disassembly of compressed nodes on the GUI side.
  IN-PROGRESS.

- Loke: **GRAPH RENDERING** LOW PRIO Improve time complexity using
  Barnes-Hut/Quadtree, currently ≈ n^3 in number of nodes.
- Loke: **REPORT** Feature set section, discuss s2e vs symQEMU vs angr vs symCC 
- Loke: include the computed native addr in CFG node as metadata.
  NO-PROGRESS. Implemented in #70 which is blocked by #78.

- Samuel: **REPORT** Describe CFG compression a little bit in the graph, why and
  how. Strongly connected components. IN-PROGRESS.
- Samuel: Implement a "Searcher" that has ability to be controlled by the
  user.

- UNASSIGNED: create a subcommand that creates a recipe json with no symbolic
  input. NO-PROGRESS. Maybe we just need an example file one can copy and edit.
- UNASSIGNED: create an example recipe file with all features displayed and
  commented (documented). NO-PROGRESS.
- UNASSIGNED: Send over instruction slice for a node when it is new. Send this
  only every so often. NO-PROGRESS.
- UNASSIGNED: Debug libamba code. Libamba (bootleg valgrind
  reimplementation) is currently broken and needs to be debugged to figure out
  what's wrong. NO-PROGRESS.
- UNASSIGNED: Rewrite recipe crate to do more syntax and semantic checks to
  catch more syntactically correct but semantically incorrect recipe files.
  Example: that the binary is statically linked etc.
- UNASSIGNED: CGC binaries. NO PROGRESS
- UNASSIGNED: GUI tool to choose to prioritize a certain "state" in S2E. So
  that one can focus on a branch that is intresting and ignore others manually.
  This will give more control to the user. Scheduele a state to run later?
- UNASSIGNED: Monitor syscalls made by the binary (hook on `onSyscall`? Is
  there such a thing?).
- UNASSIGNED: Figure out how to do useful state-merging using S2E. Maybe we
  could do something like creating breakpoints for start and end addresses the
  user has chosen or do something automatic if possible, can this be done using
  S2E with some hooks?. Investigation task.

## TODOS (also refer to backlog)
- Enaya: **REPORT** Fix \cite not having ~ before it according to Iulias
  feedback.
- Samuel: Move graph compression to GUI (so multiprocessing is available) side
  and add options to view different graphs (symbolic vs CFG vs compressed
  symbolic vs compressed CFG) in the GUI. (Reviewable).
- Samuel: Send incremental data over IPC to GUI and build the graphs on the GUI
  side. Before we were building the graph in the S2E process and sending a
  whole graph over IPC. Store the "diff" in S2E side and eventually send over
  everything to the GUI side over IPC.
- Loke: Embedding (layout in the 2D plane) subgraph (Non-sibling subset of
  nodes, ie. parents and children, graph of all paths that also include "this
  node"). It is computationally heavy to render the entire graph as it
  will be too huge for larger programs.
- UNASSIGNED: Highlight nodes with self-link with a unicode circular arrow
- UNASSIGNED: Combine dissembly + debugdata and show in the GUI.
- Albin+Clara: Expand and write more in Existerande verktyg section.

## Discussion about Report
Existerande verktyg should maybe mention
- DETAILED: Angr
- DETAILED: Ghidra
- MENTION: AFL++
- MENTION: S2E ootb
- MENTION: Binary ninja
- MENTION: SymQEMU
- ~~SEESAW?~~
- ~~X-force~~
- MENTION: SAGE? Microsoft internal fuzzer. Mentioned here at least:
  https://link.springer.com/referenceworkentry/10.1007/978-981-15-6401-7_40-1
- MENTION: Symbolic Debugging (Java)? https://www.key-project.org/applications/debugging/#Literature


Talk about a subset of these tools in the introduction as well.
