# Meeting 2023-05-22

## Möten denna vecka

| Day     | Description + Dat                    | Time         |
|---------|--------------------------------------|--------------|
| Torsdag | Möte 25/5                            | 10:00        |
| Fredag  | Presentation+muntlig opponering 26/5 | 9:30 - 12:00 |

## DONES
- Loke+Enaya+Clara+Samuel: Prepare slides and script for presentation.
- Loke+Samuel: Send separate oppositions to the corresponding group.

## Backlog

- Clara: Represent compressed nodes as an ordered list of original nodes. This
  will help in the implementation of compression algorithm and also be needed
  to reconstruct the disassembly of compressed nodes on the GUI side.
  IN-PROGRESS.

- Albin: **REPORT** Make S2E architecture graph as a real figure. IN-PROGRESS.

- Samuel: Nodidentifiering som glömmer symbolic state, behåller basic block.
  Visar möjliga paths lite för generellt men i mindre graf. A new graph that
  compresses the basic block graph.
- Samuel: Color nodes by functions.

- Loke: **BUG_FIX** Freeze bug sometimes (very often on Enayas computer)
  the whole GUI freezes when a node is selected.

### LOW_PRIO:
- UNASSIGNED: create a subcommand that creates a recipe json with no symbolic
  input. NO-PROGRESS. Maybe we just need an example file one can copy and edit.
- UNASSIGNED: create an example recipe file with all features displayed and
  commented (documented). NO-PROGRESS.
- UNASSIGNED: Rewrite recipe crate to do more syntax and semantic checks to
  catch more syntactically correct but semantically incorrect recipe files.
  Example: that the binary is statically linked etc.
- UNASSIGNED: Monitor syscalls made by the binary (hook on `onSyscall`? Is
  there such a thing?).
- UNASSIGNED: Figure out how to do useful state-merging using S2E. Maybe we
  could do something like creating breakpoints for start and end addresses the
  user has chosen or do something automatic if possible, can this be done using
  S2E with some hooks?. Investigation task.
- UNASSIGNED: **LOW_PRIO** Document Recipe file/json format.

## TODOS (also refer to backlog)


